---
title: 'Interactive Psychometrics for Autism with the Human Dynamic Clamp: Interpersonal Synchrony From Sensorimotor to Sociocognitive Domains'
authors: Florence Baillin, Aline Lefebvre, Amandine Pedoux, Yann Beauxis, Denis A. Engemann, Anna Maruani, Frédérique Amsellem, J. A. Scott Kelso, Thomas Bourgeron1, Richard Delorme and Guillaume Dumas
publication: Frontiers in Psychiatry
year: 2020
link: https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyt.2020.510366
type: Journal article #article, book...
category: Review


highlightData:
  title: Interactive Psychometrics for Autism
  subtitle: Frontiers in Psychiatry
  image: /assets/img/papers/2020_F.Baillin.png
  alt: 
  docPath:

---
**Abstract:**
The human dynamic clamp (HDC) is a human–machine interface designed on the basis of coordination dynamics for studying realistic social interaction under controlled and reproducible conditions. Here, we propose to probe the validity of the HDC as a psychometric instrument for quantifying social abilities in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and neurotypical development. To study interpersonal synchrony with the HDC, we derived five standardized scores following a gradient from sensorimotor and motor to higher sociocognitive skills in a sample of 155 individuals (113 participants with ASD, 42 typically developing participants; aged 5 to 25 years; IQ > 70). Regression analyses were performed using normative modeling on global scores according to four subconditions (HDC behavior “cooperative/competitive,” human task “in-phase/anti-phase,” diagnosis, and age at inclusion). Children with ASD had lower scores than controls for motor skills. HDC motor coordination scores were the best candidates for stratification and diagnostic biomarkers according to exploratory analyses of hierarchical clustering and multivariate classification. Independently of phenotype, sociocognitive skills increased with developmental age while being affected by the ongoing task and HDC behavior. Weaker performance in ASD for motor skills suggests the convergent validity of the HDC for evaluating social interaction. Results provided additional evidence of a relationship between sensorimotor and sociocognitive skills. HDC may also be used as a marker of maturation of sociocognitive skills during real-time social interaction. Through its standardized and objective evaluation, the HDC not only represents a valid paradigm for the study of interpersonal synchrony but also offers a promising, clinically relevant psychometric instrument for the evaluation and stratification of sociomotor dysfunctions.
